MSC4515: RTC Transports discovery for widgets (#4515)
matrix-org/matrix-doc: proposals/4515-rtc-transports-widget-action.md

Reviewer: Implementation requirements:

* [ ] Widget (using)
* [ ] Client (supporting)

Reviewer 2: Client implementation: https://github.com/gomuks/gomuks/pull/737 (with https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-widget-api/pull/165)

> # MSC4515: RTC Transports discovery for widgets

Reviewer: This proposal would need adapting for https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4519 , if https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4520 is accepted.

Reviewer 3: Adapted in 62037cee3406db79b5544efd30719be78b41c971

Widgets embedded in a room may need to know which real-time communication (RTC) backends the homeserver
offers, for example to join a call.
[MSC4143](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4143) Matrix RTC offers a way for clients
to discover the available transports through a new authenticated Client-Server endpoint, **GET**
`/_matrix/client/v1/rtc/transports`.

Given that this new endpoint is authenticated, widgets cannot access it directly: they need a new widget
action to get the information by delegating to the client.

## Proposal

The widget API is extended with one new interface to access the discovery of rtc transports. The user must

> manually approve the `rtc_transports` capability before the action can be used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The widget API is extended with one new interface to access the discovery of RTC transports. The client must
approve the `rtc_transports` capability before the action can be used.
```

(Perhaps this approval happens automatically, as is the case with Element Call widgets in Element Web)

**Success Response**
```json
{
   "api":"fromWidget",
   "widgetId":"widget-1234",
   "requestId":"req-abc",
   "action":"get_rtc_transports",
   "data":{},
   "response":{
      "rtc_transports":[
         {
            "type":"livekit",
            "livekit_service_url":"https://livekit-jwt.example.com"
         }
      ]
   }
}
```

The `rtc_transports` field follows the same format as
[MSC4143](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4143), that is:

- `rtc_transports` (required, array): Array of objects describing the transports the homeserver supports.
    - `type`: (required, string): The globally unique transport identifier. MUST follow the Common
      Namespaced Identifier Grammar but without the namespacing requirements.
    - Optionally includes further properties specific to the transport type. The concrete properties are
      defined by the transport's specification.

**Error Response**
```json
{
   "api":"fromWidget",
   "widgetId":"widget-1234",
   "requestId":"req-abc",
   "action":"get_rtc_transports",
   "data":{},
   "response":{
      "error": { "message": "Missing capability" }
   }
}
```

> The `error` envelope follows the standard widget API error format. Two error cases are possible:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `error` envelope follows the standard widget API error format. At least two error cases are possible:
```

capability in a single check for users.

Offer a generic `do_authenticated_api_call` action where widget could call any path via the host. This
would create a more complex consent from the user point of view ("allow widget to make calls to
`this/path` on your behalf"). Also there are precedents related to VOIP that had more high level APIs,
like [MSC3846](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/3846) TurnServers.

## Security considerations

- The widget never sees the access token — the client makes the authenticated call and returns only the
  endpoint body.

## Unstable prefix

While this MSC is not yet included in the spec, implementations should use
`org.matrix.msc4515.rtc_transports` in place of the `rtc_transports` capability identifier, and
`org.matrix.msc4515.get_rtc_transports` in place of the `get_rtc_transports` action name. Clients and
widgets should only call or support these actions if a widget API version of `org.matrix.msc4515` is
advertised.

## Dependencies

This MSC builds on [MSC4143](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec-proposals/pull/4143) (which at the

> time of writing have not yet been accepted into the spec).

Reviewer 3: Also widgets are generally not in the spec

Reviewer 3: 55faad85a2eb121b56ab6e7396c22ecb7b78b57e
